>> Scott Moss: So here's just some
points on GraphQL versus REST,
this is not a complete list.
And these are mostly just my opinions,
some of them are facts.
GraphQL, on the left, we have one route,
it's not based on HTTP verbs.
So you won't be posting,
deleting, getting, putting,
you won't be doing any of that.
It's mostly just post, sometimes get,
depending on what client you're using, but
it's usually just post or get.
And obviously there's an options
request if you're doing course, but
that has nothing to do with GraphQL.
Strict data typing, so like I said,
you can think of it as like TypeScript for
your API.
So everything has to go
through that schema and
it's going to be checked by that schema.
And, if it doesn't match, that's not
even going to invoke your resolvers.
Interactive docs, as you'll see soon,
right out of the box,
you get interactive docs.
Because everything is strictly typed,
we can do introspection on the schema,
which allows us to see every
single type inside our API.
Which allows us to visualize it and have
documentation that we can explore freely.
Works well with the component
architecture, and in fact,
that's where GraphQL came from.
When Facebook created it,
they had component architecture with their
React Apps and their React Native Apps.
And whatever they had, and
REST was just falling apart.
So they decided to build something
with the perspective of a component
architecture, and
that's where GraphQL came from.
Advanced data resolving, so like I said,
controllers yesterday are like,
I'm going to resolve something for
this request.
Resolvers are like, I'm going to resolve
something for the shape of this field.
For this one thing, and
then a combination of those resolvers ends
up being the response from your server.
Now, the word graph in
GraphQL signifies something,
it's because you're kind of
building a pseudo Graph API.
It's not a real Graph API unless you're
using something like Relay or something.
But basically, it allows you to make
associations on the fly, right?
So if you think about
a relational database,
you set up those relations ahead of time.
Right, you're like, this thing relates
to this, I'm going to have a table,
I'm going to do populate.
You set that up ahead of time,
where GraphQL, you can do that at runtime.
It depends on, as long as everything
eventually resolves to something.
You can query it however
you want to query it, and
those queries might not be
the way you define them.
Like in REST, you predefine how something
is going to respond to something.
In GraphQL, it can respond dynamically
as long as you set the resolvers up to
resolve to something eventually.
That sounds confusing but
basically all it means is you have a tree.
And if you resolve every single leaf,
then anybody can query your tree and
eventually get some type of shape.
And that shape that you query might be
different than the shape that I query.
But at the end of the day, everything
resolved down to the lowest point of
a leaf of a tree, and
that's basically what GraphQL is.
Whereas REST is like, you have to
predefine those branches and that's it,
you can't explore and get dynamic with it.
So REST has many routes,
it's based on HTTP verbs.
I did put one benefit of REST here,
this is a little advanced, but
it's cacheable on a network level.
GraphQL, one of the downsides,
it's not cacheable on a network level.
And what I mean by that is,
so normally for
us, you would probably cache something
on a CDN level, or something like that.
You could do that with GraphQL, but you'd
probably just have a lot of cache misses.
Because, if you think about REST, REST,
when it uses caches on a network level,
it's probably using the URL as a digest,
right?
To do the caching, well, in GraphQL,
because you only have one URL,
the digest is probably the query
that you're setting up.
Depending on if it's a post or not, so
now you've got to digest on that, and
most CDMs don't support that.
Some CDMs do support digesting
on the body and stuff like that.
But even then, somebody can ask for the
exact same thing with one thing slightly
different and
then it will be a cache miss.
So, to take advantage of GraphQL caching,
you'll probably do
application-level caching.
A lot of Reddits, a lot of Memcached,
a lot of request time caching, so
there's other limitations.
But taking advantage of the network-level
caching is something that GraphQL doesn't
really have a good story for yet.